Migration from CHT 3.x on docker-compose to CHT 4.x on k3s (#1723)
medic/cht-docs: content/en/hosting/4.x/_partial_migration_3x_docker_to_4x_k3s.md

---
toc_hide: true
hide_summary: true
---

The hosting architecture differs entirely between CHT-Core 3.x and CHT-Core 4.x. When migrating from Docker Compose to K3s, specific steps are required using the [couchdb-migration](https://github.com/medic/couchdb-migration) tool. This tool interfaces with CouchDB to update shard maps and database metadata.

{{% alert title="Note" %}}
If after upgrading you get an error, `Cannot convert undefined or null to object` - please see [issue #8040](https://github.com/medic/cht-core/issues/8040) for a work around. This only affects CHT 4.0.0, 4.0.1, 4.1.0 and 4.1.1. It was fixed in CHT 4.2.0.
{{% /alert %}}

## Install Migration Tool
```shell
mkdir -p ~/couchdb-migration/
cd ~/couchdb-migration/
curl -s -o ./docker-compose.yml https://raw.githubusercontent.com/medic/couchdb-migration/main/docker-compose.yml
docker compose up
```

> ## Set Up Environment Variables
> ```shell
> # Replace with your actual CouchDB URL from the Docker Compose setup
> export COUCH_URL=http://<your-admin-user>:<your-admin-password>@<couchdb-host>:5984
> ```

Reviewer: We should standardize on using the same `<variable-name>`  for username and password.  As well, let's pull the code comment out to be text that's easier to read:

``````suggestion
## Set Up Environment Variables

Be sure to replace both `<admin-user>` and `<password>` with your actual username and password.  As well, update `<couchdb-host>` to the CouchDB URL from the Docker Compose setup:

```shell
export COUCH_URL=http://<admin-user>:<password>@<couchdb-host>:5984
```
``````
